The Project Gutenberg EBook of Punch, or the London Charivari, Volume 1,
Complete, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Punch, or the London Charivari, Volume 1, Complete

Author: Various

Release Date: December 4, 2005 [EBook #17216]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PUNCH, VOLUME 1 ***




Produced by Syamanta Saikia, Jon Ingram, Barbara Tozier and the PG
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net




PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI


[Illustration]


VOLUME THE FIRST.


       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: INTRODUCTION.]


[Illustration: T]This Guffawgraph is intended to form a refuge for
destitute wit--an asylum for the thousands of orphan jokes--the
superannuated Joe Millers--the millions of perishing puns, which are now
wandering about without so much as a shelf to rest upon! It is also
devoted to the emancipation of the JEW _d'esprits_ all over the world, and
the naturalization of those alien JONATHANS, whose adherence to the truth
has forced them to emigrate from their native land.

"PUNCH" has the honour of making his appearance every SATURDAY, and
continues, from week to week, to offer to the world all the fun to be
found in his own and the following heads:

POLITICS.

"PUNCH" has no party prejudices--he is conservative in his opposition to
Fantoccini and political puppets, but a progressive whig in his love of
_small change_.

FASHIONS.

This department is conducted by Mrs. J. Punch, whose extensive
acquaintance with the _elite_ of the areas enables her to furnish the
earliest information of the movements of the Fashionable World.

POLICE.

This portion of the work is under the direction of an experienced
nobleman--a regular attendant at the various offices--who from a strong
attachment to "PUNCH," is frequently in a position to supply exclusive
reports.

REVIEWS.

To render this branch of the periodical as perfect as possible,
arrangements have been made to secure the critical assistance of John
Ketch, Esq., who, from the mildness of the law, and the congenial
character of modern literature with his early associations, has been
induced to undertake its _execution_.

FINE ARTS.

Anxious to do justice to native talent, the criticisms upon Painting,
Sculpture, &c., are confided to one of the most popular artists of the
day--"Punch's" own immortal scene-painter.

MUSIC AND THE DRAMA.

These are amongst the most prominent features of the work. The Musical
Notices are written by the gentleman who plays the mouth-organ, assisted
by the professors of the drum and cymbals. "Punch" himself _does_ the
Drama.

SPORTING.

A Prophet is engaged! He foretells not only the winners of each race, but
also the "VATES" and colours of the riders.

THE FACETIAE

Are contributed by the members of the following learned bodies:--

THE COURT OF COMMON COUNCIL AND THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY:--THE TEMPERANCE
ASSOCIATION AND THE WATERPROOFING COMPANY:--THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND
THE HIGHGATE CEMETERY:--THE DRAMATIC AUTHORS' AND THE MENDICITY
SOCIETIES:--THE BEEFSTEAK CLUB AND THE ANTI-DRY-ROT COMPANY.

Together with original, humorous, and satirical articles in verse and
prose, from all the

[Illustration: FUNNY DOGS WITH COMIC TALES.]

       *       *       *       *       *




INTRODUCTION.

VOLUME I.--JULY TO DECEMBER, 1841.

       *       *       *       *       *


POLITICAL SUMMARY.

Early in the month of July, 1841, a small handbill was freely distributed
by the newsmen of London, and created considerable amusement and inquiry.
That handbill now stands as the INTRODUCTION to this, the first Volume of
_Punch_, and was employed to announce the advent of a publication which
has sustained for nearly twenty years a popularity unsurpassed in the
history of periodical literature. _Punch_ and the Elections were the only
matters which occupied the public mind on July 17, 1842. The Whigs had
been defeated in many places where hitherto they had been the popular
party, and it was quite evident that the Meeting of Parliament would
terminate their lease of Office. [STREET POLITICS.] The House met on the
19th of August, and unanimously elected MR. SHAW LEFEVRE to be Speaker.
The address on the QUEEN'S Speech was moved by MR. MARK PHILLIPS, and
seconded by MR. DUNDAS. MR. J.S. WORTLEY moved an amendment, negativing
the confidence of the House in the Ministry, and the debate continued to
occupy Parliament for four nights, when the Opposition obtained a majority
of 91 against the Ministers. Amongst those who spoke against the
Government, and directly in favour of SIR ROBERT PEEL, was MR. DISRAELI.
In his speech he accused the Whigs of seeking to retain power in
opposition to the wishes of the country, and of profaning the name of the
QUEEN at their elections, as if she had been a second candidate at some
petty poll, and considered that they should blush for the position in
which they had placed their Sovereign. MR. BERNAL, Jun., retorted upon MR.
DISRAELI for inveighing against the Whigs, with whom he had formerly been
associated. SIR ROBERT PEEL, in a speech of great eloquence, condemned the
inactivity and feebleness of the existing Government, and promised that,
should he displace it, and take office, it should be by walking in the
open light, and in the direct paths of the constitution. He would only
accept power upon his conception of public duty, and would resign the
moment he was satisfied he was unsupported by the confidence of the
people, and not continue to hold place when the voice of the country was
against him. [HERCULES TEARING THESEUS FROM THE ROCK TO WHICH HE HAD
GROWN.] LORD JOHN defended the acts of the Ministry, and denied that they
had been guilty of harshness to the poor by the New Poor Law, or enemies
of the Church by reducing "the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY to the miserable
pittance of L15,000 a year, cutting down the BISHOP OF LONDON to no more
than L10,000 a year, and the BISHOP OF DURHAM to the wretched stipend of
L8,000 a year!" He twitted PEEL for his reticence upon the Corn Laws, and
denounced the possibility of a sliding scale of duties upon corn. He
concluded by saying, "I am convinced that, if this country be governed by
enlarged and liberal counsels, its power and might will spread and
increase, and its influence become greater and greater; liberal principles
will prevail, civilisation will be spread to all parts of the globe, and
you will bless millions by your acts and mankind by your union." Loud and
continued cheering followed this speech, but on division the majority was
against the Ministers. When the House met to recommend the report on the
amended Address, MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD moved another amendment, to the
effect that the distress of the people referred to in the QUEEN'S Speech
was mainly attributable to the non-representation of the working classes
in Parliament. He did not advocate universal suffrage, but one which would
give a fair representation of the people. From the want of this arose