POLITICAL SUMMARY.

Early in the month of July, 1841, a small handbill was freely distributed
by the newsmen of London, and created considerable amusement and inquiry.
That handbill now stands as the INTRODUCTION to this, the first Volume of
_Punch_, and was employed to announce the advent of a publication which
has sustained for nearly twenty years a popularity unsurpassed in the
history of periodical literature. _Punch_ and the Elections were the only
matters which occupied the public mind on July 17, 1842. The Whigs had
been defeated in many places where hitherto they had been the popular
party, and it was quite evident that the Meeting of Parliament would
terminate their lease of Office. [STREET POLITICS.] The House met on the
19th of August, and unanimously elected MR. SHAW LEFEVRE to be Speaker.
The address on the QUEEN'S Speech was moved by MR. MARK PHILLIPS, and
seconded by MR. DUNDAS. MR. J.S. WORTLEY moved an amendment, negativing
the confidence of the House in the Ministry, and the debate continued to
occupy Parliament for four nights, when the Opposition obtained a majority
of 91 against the Ministers. Amongst those who spoke against the
Government, and directly in favour of SIR ROBERT PEEL, was MR. DISRAELI.
In his speech he accused the Whigs of seeking to retain power in
opposition to the wishes of the country, and of profaning the name of the
QUEEN at their elections, as if she had been a second candidate at some
petty poll, and considered that they should blush for the position in
which they had placed their Sovereign. MR. BERNAL, Jun., retorted upon MR.
DISRAELI for inveighing against the Whigs, with whom he had formerly been
associated. SIR ROBERT PEEL, in a speech of great eloquence, condemned the
inactivity and feebleness of the existing Government, and promised that,
should he displace it, and take office, it should be by walking in the
open light, and in the direct paths of the constitution. He would only
accept power upon his conception of public duty, and would resign the
moment he was satisfied he was unsupported by the confidence of the
people, and not continue to hold place when the voice of the country was
against him. [HERCULES TEARING THESEUS FROM THE ROCK TO WHICH HE HAD
GROWN.] LORD JOHN defended the acts of the Ministry, and denied that they
had been guilty of harshness to the poor by the New Poor Law, or enemies
of the Church by reducing "the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY to the miserable
pittance of L15,000 a year, cutting down the BISHOP OF LONDON to no more
than L10,000 a year, and the BISHOP OF DURHAM to the wretched stipend of
L8,000 a year!" 